# List of exercices:
1. [Hello World](#helloworld)
2. [Static](#static)
3. [Pug](#pug)
4. [Good Old Form](#goodoldform)
5. [Stylish CSS](#stylishcss)
6. [Param Pam Pam](#parampampam)
7. [What's In Query](#whatsinquery)
8. [JSON Me](#jsonme)

## 1. Hello World <a name="helloworld"></a>
Create an Express.js app that outputs "Hello World!" when somebody goes to `/home`.

The port number will be provided to you by {appname} as the first argument of
the application, i.e., `process.argv[2]`.

Run `$ killall node`  before verifying exercises (in your terminal on Mac OS X) to end any previous processes.

For Windows, use "taskkill /IM node.exe" in Command Prompt.

Don't forget to install the Express module if you haven't already.

```
$ npm install express --save
```


## 2. Static <a name="static"></a>
This exercise is about serving static assets like HTML files.
There are many ways to do it, but we want you to apply static middleware to serve the file `index.html`.

Please don't use ANY routes like `app.get`. ONLY static.

Your solution must listen on the port number supplied by `process.argv[2]`.

The `index.html` file is provided and usable via the path supplied by
`process.argv[3]`. However, you can use your own file with this content (beware of whitespace):

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>expressworks</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/main.css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>I am red!</p>
  </body>
</html>
```


## 3. Pug <a name="pug"></a>
Create an Express.js app with a home page rendered by the Pug template engine.

The home page should respond to `/home`.

The view should show the current date using 'new Date.toDateString()'.

We use 'toDateString()' to simply return the date in a human-readable format
without the time.


## 4. Good Old Form <a name="goodoldform"></a>
Forms are important. This exercise will teach you how to process the traditional (non-AJAX) web form.

Write a route (`'/form'`) that processes HTML form input
(`<form><input name="str"/></form>`) and responds with the value of `str` backwards.

To handle a POST request, use the `post()` method which is used the same way as `get()`:

```js
app.post('/path', function(req, res){...})
```

Express.js uses middleware to provide extra functionality to your web server.

Simply put, a middleware is a function invoked by Express.js before your own
request handler.

Middleware provide a large variety of functionality such as logging, serving
static files, and error handling.

A middleware is added by calling `use()` on the application and passing the
middleware as a parameter.

To parse `x-www-form-urlencoded` request bodies, Express.js can use `urlencoded()`
middleware from the `body-parser` module.

```js
var bodyparser = require('body-parser')
app.use(bodyparser.urlencoded({extended: false}))
```


## 5. Stylish CSS <a name="stylishcss"></a>
HTML without styles is boring so this exercise will teach you how to use Stylus with Express on the fly.

Style the HTML from the "STATIC" exercise using Stylus middleware.
Stylus <https://github.com/stylus/stylus> generates .css files on-the-fly from `.styl` files.

Your solution should listen on the port supplied by `process.argv[2]` for
`GET` requests, one of which will be for `main.css`, which should be
automatically generated by your Stylus middleware. `index.html` and `main.styl` can be found in `process.argv[3]` (they are in the same directory).

You could also create your own folder and use these, if you like:

The `main.styl` file:

```stylus
p
  color red
```

The `index.html` file:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title>expressworks</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/main.css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>I am red!</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

## 6. Param Pam Pam <a name="parampampam"></a>
This exercise is about using URL parameters.
For example, if you have /message/526aa677a8ceb64569c9d4fb, then you should know how to
extract that value which is an ID of the message.

Create an Express.js server that processes PUT `/message/:id` requests
and produces a SHA-1 hash of the current date combined with the ID from the URL.

For instance, if the server receives

```
PUT /message/526aa677a8ceb64569c9d4fb
```

it will respond with a hash of the current date (as a string) and the ID.

The SHA-1 can be computed like this:

```js
require('crypto')
  .createHash('sha1')
  .update(new Date().toDateString() + id)
  .digest('hex')
```


## 7. What's In Query <a name="whatsinquery"></a>
Oftentimes, we need to process the data from the URL query string (urlencoded).

Write a route that extracts data from the query string in the GET `/search` URL
route, e.g. `?results=recent&include_tabs=true` and then outputs it back to
the user in JSON format.

Use app.get('/search', function(){...}) for the route.

In Express.js, to extract query string parameters, we can use (inside the request handler):

```js
req.query.NAME
```


## 8. JSON Me <a name="jsonme"></a>
Most of the times we're building RESTful API servers with JSON.

Write a server that, when it receives a GET, reads a file, parses it to JSON,
and responds with that content to the user.

The server should respond to any GET that matches the `/books` resource path.
As always, the port is passed in `process.argv[2]`. The file to read is passed
in `process.argv[3]`.

Respond with:

```js
res.json(object)
```

Everything should match the `/books` resource path.


For reading the file, use the `fs` module, e.g.,

```js
fs.readFile(filename, callback)